data/en/0000-welcome_en.md, before:

% Siduction Manual

# Welcome

## The siduction™ GNU/Linux operating system

The name **siduction** is a play on two words: the word **sid**, meaning the code name of Debian Unstable, and **seduction**.

siduction is an operating system based on the [Linux kernel](https://kernel.org) and the [GNU project](https://gnu.org). In addition there are application programs from [Debian](https://debian.org). siduction is committed to the core values of the [Debian Social Contract](https://www.debian.org/social_contract.en.html) and the following "*Debian Free Software Guidelines*".  
See also [DFSG](https://ee.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debian_Free_Software_Guidelines)

### General

For those who want to get started quickly, here is the [Quick Start Guide](0100-wel-quickstart_en.md#quickstart)

The siduction operating system manual is a reference for getting to know the system as well as for refreshing your knowledge of the system. It not only provides basic knowledge, but also covers complex topics and supports the work as an administrator of siduction systems.

It is divided into similar topics: Everything concerning partitioning, for example, is in the "Installation/Partitioning" chapter, and topics concerning WiFi are in the "Network" chapter.

Printing manual pages:  
Linux commands can be more than 120 characters long. In order to optimize the display on a screen, automatic line breaks are not applied. Our manual in PDF format, on the other hand, contains line breaks for the long commands. The PDF manual is available on all ISOs and on the system after installation.  
To print manual pages, please use the PDF and print only the pages you need.

To get help for a specific pre-installed or self-installed application program (also called a package), it is best to consult the FAQs, online manuals or forums on the home page, or the application's help menu.

Almost all application programs offer assistance by means of an associated "*Manual-Page*" (short manpage). It can be called in the terminal using the command **`man <package_name>`**. You can also check for documentation in the `/usr/share/doc/<packagename>` directory.

### Copyright Legal and License Notices

All rights © 2006-2022 of the siduction manual are licensed under the [GNU Free Documentation License](https://gnu.org/licenses/fdl.txt).  
This permits copying, distribution, and/or modification of the document under the terms of the GNU Free Document License version 1.3 or later (as published by the Free Software Foundation); without invariant sections and without cover texts (front cover texts, back cover texts).

The rights of protected trademarks or copyrights belong to the respective owners, regardless of whether this is noted or not.

Errors excepted (E&OE) 

### Disclaimer

This is experimental software. Use at your own risk. The siduction project, its developers, and team members cannot be held liable under any circumstances for any damage to hardware or software, loss of data, or any other direct or indirect damage caused by the use of this software.

If you do not agree with these terms, you are not allowed to further use or distribute this software.

<div id="rev">Last edited: 2022/03/29</div>

Commit message:

Responsive HTML and fix issue 56 https://github.com/siduction/sidu-manual/issues/56

data/en/0000-welcome_en.md, after:

% Siduction Manual

# Welcome

## The siduction™ GNU/Linux operating system

The name **siduction** is a play on two words: the word **sid**, meaning the code name of Debian Unstable, and **seduction**.

siduction is an operating system based on the [Linux kernel](https://kernel.org) and the [GNU project](https://gnu.org). In addition there are application programs from [Debian](https://debian.org). siduction is committed to the core values of the [Debian Social Contract](https://www.debian.org/social_contract.en.html) and the following "*Debian Free Software Guidelines*".  
See also [DFSG](https://ee.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debian_Free_Software_Guidelines)

### General

For those who want to get started quickly, here is the [Quick Start Guide](0100-wel-quickstart_en.md#quickstart)

The siduction operating system manual is a reference for getting to know the system as well as for refreshing your knowledge of the system. It not only provides basic knowledge, but also covers complex topics and supports the work as an administrator of siduction systems.

It is divided into similar topics: Everything concerning partitioning, for example, is in the "Installation/Partitioning" chapter, and topics concerning WiFi are in the "Network" chapter.

The current manual is delivered with the ISOs. Since changes are made to the manual on an ongoing basis, it is worth taking a look at the [online version](https://manual.siduction.org/) from time to time.

Printing manual pages:  
Linux commands can be more than 120 characters long. In order to optimize the display on a screen, automatic line breaks are not applied. Our manual in PDF format, on the other hand, contains line breaks for the long commands. The PDF manual is available on all ISOs and on the system after installation.  
To print manual pages, please use the PDF and print only the pages you need.

To get help for a specific pre-installed or self-installed application program (also called a package), it is best to consult the FAQs, online manuals or forums on the home page, or the application's help menu.

Almost all application programs offer assistance by means of an associated "*Manual-Page*" (short manpage). It can be called in the terminal using the command **`man <package_name>`**. You can also check for documentation in the `/usr/share/doc/<packagename>` directory.

### Copyright Legal and License Notices

All rights © 2006-2022 of the siduction manual are licensed under the [GNU Free Documentation License](https://gnu.org/licenses/fdl.txt).  
This permits copying, distribution, and/or modification of the document under the terms of the GNU Free Document License version 1.3 or later (as published by the Free Software Foundation); without invariant sections and without cover texts (front cover texts, back cover texts).

The rights of protected trademarks or copyrights belong to the respective owners, regardless of whether this is noted or not.

Errors excepted (E&OE) 

### Disclaimer

This is experimental software. Use at your own risk. The siduction project, its developers, and team members cannot be held liable under any circumstances for any damage to hardware or software, loss of data, or any other direct or indirect damage caused by the use of this software.

If you do not agree with these terms, you are not allowed to further use or distribute this software.

<div id="rev">Last edited: 2022/03/29</div>
