data/en/0200-isos_en.md, before:

% ISO images

# ISO images

This section contains information and notes on

+ [The Content of the live ISO](0201-cd-content_en.md#content-of-the-live-iso), available variants, system requirements, applications, utilities, and the disclaimer.

+ [Using the live DVD](0202-live-mode_en.md#how-to-use-the-live-dvd), the available users and their passwords, working with root privileges, and software installation during the live session.

+ [The boot options (cheat codes)](0204-cheatcodes_en.md#bootoptions-cheatcodes) in tabular form for both the live ISO and installed systems.

+ [Downloading and burning the ISOs](0206-cd-dl-burning_en.md#downloading-and-burning-the-iso), the mirror servers and the files on them, the integrity check of the download, and burning on Linux and Windows.

+ [Burning the ISOs without GUI](0207-cd-no-gui-burn_en.md#burn-dvd-without-gui) by means of a whole set of directly usable terminal commands, which can also be used to determine available devices.

<div id="rev">Last edited: 2022/13/01</div>

Commit message:

0000-welcome_en and 0200-isos_en
German versions of files 0206-0209 to be reviewed
-> links in 0200-isos_en need to be checked after having translated those files

data/en/0200-isos_en.md, after:

**TO DO**
German versions of files 0206-0209 to be reviewed
-> Check links after having translated those files

% ISO images

# ISO images

This section contains information and notes on

+ [The Content of the live ISO](0201-cd-content_en.md#content-of-the-live-iso),  
  available variants, system requirements, applications, utilities, and the disclaimer.

+ [Using the live DVD](0202-live-mode_en.md#how-to-use-the-live-dvd),  
  the available users and their passwords, working with root privileges, and software installation during the live session.

+ [The boot options (cheat codes)](0204-cheatcodes_en.md#bootoptions-cheatcodes),  
  in tabular form for both the live ISO and installed systems.

+ [Downloading and verifying the ISOs](0206-iso-dl-_en.md#downloading-the-iso),  
  the mirror servers and the files on them, and the integrity check of the download.

+ [Burning the ISOs onto a flash drive, SD or SDHC card](0207-iso-to-usb-sd_en.md#iso-onto-usb-drive---memory-card),  
  methods for burning a siduction ISO onto a USB flash drive, SD or SDHC card as live medium.

+ [Burning the ISOs onto a DVD with GUI](0208-iso-to-dvd_en.md#burn-iso),  
  using programs on a graphical user interface on the operating systems Linux and Windows&#8482;.


+ [Burning the ISOs without GUI](0209-no-gui-burn_en.md#burn-dvd-without-gui),  
  by means of a whole set of directly usable terminal commands, which can also be used to determine available devices.

<div id="rev">Last edited: 2022/26/03</div>
