data/en/0502-inet-iwd_en.md, before:

BEGINNING   INFO AREA FOR THE AUTHORS
This area is to be removed when the status RC3 is reached. The first line of the file must contain the title (% my-title) !!!  
**Status: RC2**

Necessary work:

+ check spelling  

Work done

+ check intern links  
+ check extern links  
+ check layout  

END   INFO AREA FOR THE AUTHORS  
% Network - IWD

## IWD

Intel's [iNet wireless daemon](https://iwd.wiki.kernel.org/) (iwd) sends the wpa-supplicant into well-deserved retirement. Only a tenth the size and much faster, iwd is the successor. iwd works alone or together with NetworkManager, systemd-networkd and Connman.  
Two things iwd still can't do are connect via WPA/WPA2 Enterprise and properly handle hidden networks. For such working environments one should stay with wpa-supplicant or if you use siduction from 2021.3.0 [switch back to wpa-supplicant](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#back-to-wpa_supplicant).

Further information can be found on the [Arch Linux wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Iwd) or the [debian wiki](https://wiki.debian.org/NetworkManager/iwd). 

**Since siduction 2021.3.0** iwd is used as the standard for establishing connections in the WLAN.  Our implementation runs with NetworkManager.

**Since siduction 2021.1.0** iwd was already delivered in the flavours Xorg and noX. If you want, you can install iwd in the other flavours. See below: [IWD instead of wpa_supplicant](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#iwd-instead-of-wpa_supplicant).

**Before siduction 2021.1.0**: Even with a slightly older snapshot, iwd can be installed (tested with siduction 2018.3.0 and linux-image-5.15.12-1-siduction-amd64). Please also follow the instructions at [IWD instead of wpa_supplicant](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#iwd-instead-of-wpa_supplicant).

### Graphical configuration programs

+ **NetworkManager** For the NetworkManager there are different graphical interfaces e.g. for plasma-desktop/kde `plasma-nm` or for gnome `network-manager-gnome` and others. Their usage should be self-explanatory!
+ **conman** is a network manager developed by Intel, small and resource saving, read more about it in the [Arch-Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ConnMan)
+ **iwgtk** is not in debian sources, it has to be built from source code and can be found on [github](https://github.com/J-Lentz/iwgtk).

### Configuration in terminal

**iwd and NetworkManager**

1. the fastest and easiest way to use iwd with NetworkManager is to open a terminal and type this command:

   ~~~txt
   ~$ nmtui
   ~~~

   This will start a text based graphical interface of the NetworkManager in the terminal. The operation should be self-explanatory!

2. Use the command line tool *nmcli* of the NetworkManager. Detailed information about this can be found on our manual page [NetworkManager in the terminal](0501-inet-nm-cli_en.md#network-manager-command-line-tool).

   I describe here only briefly the fastest way to set up a network with the help of the NetworkManager in the command line. Provided you have all the information, this one-liner is enough:

   ~~~txt
   ~$ nmcli dev wifi con "ssid" password password name "name"
   ~~~

   (*ssid* denotes the name of the network).

   For example:

   ~~~txt
   nmcli dev wifi con "HomeOffice" password R3allY+v3ry+s3creT name "HomeOffice"
   ~~~

**iwd standalone (without NetworkManager)**

Intel's iwd comes with its own command line tool called *iwctl*. Please use *iwctl* only if the NetworkManager and wpa_supplicant are uninstalled or both are masked in systemd. 

First we should call the help of *iwctl* to see what is possible. For this we enter the command *`iwctl`* in the terminal, then at the input prompt *help*.

![iwctl help](./images/iwd/iwctl-help.png)

To find out which WiFi interface we are using we enter the following command.

~~~txt
[iwd]# device list
                     Devices                                *
-------------------------------------------------------------
  Name    Address             Powered   Adapter   Mode
-------------------------------------------------------------
  wlan0   00:01:02:03:04:05   on        phy0      station
~~~

In this case it is *wlan0* and it is running (*powered on*) in *station* mode.

Now we scan for an active network

~~~txt
[iwd]# station wlan0 scan
[iwd]# station wlan0 get-networks
~~~

Now we can connect to our network.

~~~txt
[iwd]# station wlan0 connect SSID
~~~

(*SSID* means the name of the network)

We are asked for the password and we should be connected to our network, we can check this with *"station list "* or *"station wlan0 get-networks "*.

~~~txt
[iwd]# station list
            Devices in Station Mode
---------------------------------------------
  Name         State          Scanning
---------------------------------------------
  wlan0        connected
~~~

The whole thing can be abbreviated with the following command, so you have all the necessary information!

~~~txt
iwctl --passphrase passphrase station device connect SSID
~~~

For example:

~~~txt
~$ iwctl --passphrase W1rkl1chS3hrG3h31m station wlan0 connect HomeOffice
~~~

## IWD instead of wpa_supplicant

For those who want to use iwd as a replacement for wpa_supplicant with a slightly older snapshot than siduction 2021.3.0, please follow the instructions below.

### Install IWD

> Note:  
> It is possible that non-free firmware must be installed from a USB stick or via LAN!
> Under Debian it is unfortunately not possible to install the NetworkManager (standalone) without wpa_supplicant.
 
If you want to do this, there are two options, the second option is the more sensible and easier.

1. Install NetworkManager from the sources
2. Do not start or mask the wpa_supplicant.service, because it will be installed if you use apt.
   Since siduction uses systemd, we will not go into how iwd is configured without systemd!

If you want to use iwd without NetworkManager, you don't have to worry about that, but you have to remove the NetworkManager and wpa_supplicant together with its configuration from the disk. 

~~~txt
~# apt purge network-manager wpasupplicant
~~~



**Procedure with NetworkManager installed**

+ first **iwd** is installed, 
+ then the **NetworkManager.service** is stopped,
+ then the **wpa_supplicant.service** is stopped and masked,
+ now we create the file `/etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf` and enter **iwd** there, 
+ then we create the file `/etc/iwd/main.conf` and fill it with appropriate content, 
+ activate and start the **iwd.service**, 
+ and start the **NetworkManager.service**.

Now just run the following commands as root in the terminal to use iwd:

~~~txt
~# apt update
~# apt install iwd
~# systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
~# systemctl disable --now wpa_supplicant.service
~# echo -e '[device]\nwiFi.backend=iwd' > /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf
~# touch /etc/iwd/main.conf
~# echo -e '[General]\nEnableNetworkConfiguration=true \n\n[Network]\nNameResolvingService=systemd' > /etc/iwd/main.conf
~# systemctl enable -now iwd.service
~# systemctl start NetworkManager.service
~~~

See if it worked

+ /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf

~~~txt
~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf
[device]
wiFi.backend=iwd
~~~

+ /etc/iwd/main.conf

~~~txt
~$ cat /etc/iwd/main.conf
[General]
EnableNetworkConfiguration=true

[Network]
NameResolvingService=systemd
~~~

Now one is able to display WiFi hardware in the terminal with the above described commands [**nmtui**, **nmcli** or **iwctl**](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#configuration-in-terminal), configure it and connect to a network.  
Or you can use the NetworkManager in the graphical user interface. See: [graphical-configuration-programs](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#graphical-configuration-programs)

### Back to wpa_supplicant

*(Provided NetworkManager and wpa_supplicant are installed)*.

+ Stop the **NetworkManager.service**.
+ Stop the **iwd.service** and mask it.
+ Rename the **/etc/NetworkManger/conf.d/nm.conf** file.
+ Unmask and start the **wpa_supplicant.service**.
+ Restart the **NetworkManager.service**.

~~~txt
~# systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
~# systemctl disable --now iwd.service
~# mv /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf~
~# systemctl unmask wpa_supplicant.service
~# systemctl enable --now wpa_supplicant.service
~# systemctl start NetworkManager.service
~~~

Now *wpa_supplicant* is used to connect to the WiFi hardware.

<div id="rev">Last edited: 2022/07/01</div>

Commit message:

Issue#29: IWD neue/new main.conf

data/en/0502-inet-iwd_en.md, after:

BEGINNING   INFO AREA FOR THE AUTHORS
This area is to be removed when the status RC3 is reached. The first line of the file must contain the title (% my-title) !!!  
**Status: RC2**

Necessary work:

+ check spelling  

Work done

+ check intern links  
+ check extern links  
+ check layout  

END   INFO AREA FOR THE AUTHORS  
% Network - IWD

## IWD

Intel's [iNet wireless daemon](https://iwd.wiki.kernel.org/) (iwd) sends the wpa-supplicant into well-deserved retirement. Only a tenth the size and much faster, iwd is the successor. iwd works alone or together with NetworkManager, systemd-networkd and Connman.  
Two things iwd still can't do are connect via WPA/WPA2 Enterprise and properly handle hidden networks. For such working environments one should stay with wpa-supplicant or if you use siduction from 2021.3.0 [switch back to wpa-supplicant](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#back-to-wpa_supplicant).

Further information can be found on the [Arch Linux wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Iwd) or the [debian wiki](https://wiki.debian.org/NetworkManager/iwd). 

**Since siduction 2021.3.0** iwd is used as the standard for establishing connections in the WLAN.  Our implementation runs with NetworkManager.

**Since siduction 2021.1.0** iwd was already delivered in the flavours Xorg and noX. If you want, you can install iwd in the other flavours. See below: [IWD instead of wpa_supplicant](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#iwd-instead-of-wpa_supplicant).

**Before siduction 2021.1.0**: Even with a slightly older snapshot, iwd can be installed (tested with siduction 2018.3.0 and linux-image-5.15.12-1-siduction-amd64). Please also follow the instructions at [IWD instead of wpa_supplicant](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#iwd-instead-of-wpa_supplicant).

### Graphical configuration programs

+ **NetworkManager** For the NetworkManager there are different graphical interfaces e.g. for plasma-desktop/kde `plasma-nm` or for gnome `network-manager-gnome` and others. Their usage should be self-explanatory!
+ **conman** is a network manager developed by Intel, small and resource saving, read more about it in the [Arch-Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ConnMan)
+ **iwgtk** is not in debian sources, it has to be built from source code and can be found on [github](https://github.com/J-Lentz/iwgtk).

### Configuration in terminal

**iwd and NetworkManager**

1. the fastest and easiest way to use iwd with NetworkManager is to open a terminal and type this command:

   ~~~txt
   ~$ nmtui
   ~~~

   This will start a text based graphical interface of the NetworkManager in the terminal. The operation should be self-explanatory!

2. Use the command line tool *nmcli* of the NetworkManager. Detailed information about this can be found on our manual page [NetworkManager in the terminal](0501-inet-nm-cli_en.md#network-manager-command-line-tool).

   I describe here only briefly the fastest way to set up a network with the help of the NetworkManager in the command line. Provided you have all the information, this one-liner is enough:

   ~~~txt
   ~$ nmcli dev wifi con "ssid" password password name "name"
   ~~~

   (*ssid* denotes the name of the network).

   For example:

   ~~~txt
   nmcli dev wifi con "HomeOffice" password R3allY+v3ry+s3creT name "HomeOffice"
   ~~~

**iwd standalone (without NetworkManager)**

Intel's iwd comes with its own command line tool called *iwctl*. Please use *iwctl* only if the NetworkManager and wpa_supplicant are uninstalled or both are masked in systemd. 

First we should call the help of *iwctl* to see what is possible. For this we enter the command *`iwctl`* in the terminal, then at the input prompt *help*.

![iwctl help](./images/iwd/iwctl-help.png)

To find out which WiFi interface we are using we enter the following command.

~~~txt
[iwd]# device list
                     Devices                                *
-------------------------------------------------------------
  Name    Address             Powered   Adapter   Mode
-------------------------------------------------------------
  wlan0   00:01:02:03:04:05   on        phy0      station
~~~

In this case it is *wlan0* and it is running (*powered on*) in *station* mode.

Now we scan for an active network

~~~txt
[iwd]# station wlan0 scan
[iwd]# station wlan0 get-networks
~~~

Now we can connect to our network.

~~~txt
[iwd]# station wlan0 connect SSID
~~~

(*SSID* means the name of the network)

We are asked for the password and we should be connected to our network, we can check this with *"station list "* or *"station wlan0 get-networks "*.

~~~txt
[iwd]# station list
            Devices in Station Mode
---------------------------------------------
  Name         State          Scanning
---------------------------------------------
  wlan0        connected
~~~

The whole thing can be abbreviated with the following command, so you have all the necessary information!

~~~txt
iwctl --passphrase passphrase station device connect SSID
~~~

For example:

~~~txt
~$ iwctl --passphrase W1rkl1chS3hrG3h31m station wlan0 connect HomeOffice
~~~

## IWD instead of wpa_supplicant

For those who want to use iwd as a replacement for wpa_supplicant with a slightly older snapshot than siduction 2021.3.0, please follow the instructions below.

### Install IWD

> Note:  
> It is possible that non-free firmware must be installed from a USB stick or via LAN!
> Under Debian it is unfortunately not possible to install the NetworkManager (standalone) without wpa_supplicant.
 
If you want to do this, there are two options, the second option is the more sensible and easier.

1. Install NetworkManager from the sources
2. Do not start or mask the wpa_supplicant.service, because it will be installed if you use apt.
   Since siduction uses systemd, we will not go into how iwd is configured without systemd!

If you want to use iwd without NetworkManager, you don't have to worry about that, but you have to remove the NetworkManager and wpa_supplicant together with its configuration from the disk. 

~~~txt
~# apt purge network-manager wpasupplicant
~~~

**Procedure with NetworkManager installed**  
**and iwd < 1.21-2**

+ first **iwd** is installed, 
+ then the **NetworkManager.service** is stopped,
+ then the **wpa_supplicant.service** is stopped and masked,
+ now we create the file `/etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf` and enter **iwd** there, 
+ then we create the file `/etc/iwd/main.conf` and fill it with appropriate content, 
+ activate and start the **iwd.service**, 
+ and start the **NetworkManager.service**.

Now just run the following commands as root in the terminal to use iwd:

~~~txt
~# apt update
~# apt install iwd
~# systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
~# systemctl disable --now wpa_supplicant.service
~# echo -e '[device]\nwiFi.backend=iwd' > /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf
~# touch /etc/iwd/main.conf
~# echo -e '[General]\nEnableNetworkConfiguration=true \n\n[Network]\nNameResolvingService=systemd' > /etc/iwd/main.conf
~# systemctl enable -now iwd.service
~# systemctl start NetworkManager.service
~~~

**Procedure with NetworkManager installed**  
**and iwd >= 1.21-2**

From version 1.21-2 iwd brings its own configuration file `/etc/iwd/main.conf`. The procedure is similar to the one just mentioned with the exception that we do not create the configuration file anymore, but remove the comment sign in front of "EnableNetworkConfiguration=true" in it.

Please execute the following commands as root in the terminal:

~~~txt
~# apt update
~# apt install iwd
~# systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
~# systemctl disable --now wpa_supplicant.service
~# echo -e '[device]\nwiFi.backend=iwd' > /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf
~# sed -i 's/#EnableNetworkConfiguration=true/EnableNetworkConfiguration=true/' /etc/idw/main.conf
~# systemctl enable -now iwd.service
~# systemctl start NetworkManager.service
~~~

**See if it worked**  
We display the two configuration files.

+ /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf

~~~txt
~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf
[device]
wiFi.backend=iwd
~~~

+ /etc/iwd/main.conf

~~~txt
~$ cat /etc/iwd/main.conf
[General]
EnableNetworkConfiguration=true

[Network]
NameResolvingService=systemd
~~~

Now one is able to display WiFi hardware in the terminal with the above described commands [**nmtui**, **nmcli** or **iwctl**](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#configuration-in-terminal), configure it and connect to a network.  
Or you can use the NetworkManager in the graphical user interface. See: [graphical-configuration-programs](0502-inet-iwd_en.md#graphical-configuration-programs)

### Back to wpa_supplicant

*(Provided NetworkManager and wpa_supplicant are installed)*.

+ Stop the **NetworkManager.service**.
+ Stop the **iwd.service** and mask it.
+ Rename the **/etc/NetworkManger/conf.d/nm.conf** file.
+ Unmask and start the **wpa_supplicant.service**.
+ Restart the **NetworkManager.service**.

~~~txt
~# systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
~# systemctl disable --now iwd.service
~# mv /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/nm.conf~
~# systemctl unmask wpa_supplicant.service
~# systemctl enable --now wpa_supplicant.service
~# systemctl start NetworkManager.service
~~~

Now *wpa_supplicant* is used to connect to the WiFi hardware.

<div id="rev">Last edited: 2022/07/01</div>
